# Topic: The Carpentries Community Cookbook

Time: 8pm UTC, 14 February, 2018  / 3pm New York / 12pm Los Angeles (Brisbane 6 am 15 February/ NZ 9 am 15 February) 
See the local time for you: https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=Carpentry+Champions+call&iso=20180214T20

This is a Zoom meeting: 
Join from PC, Mac, Linux, iOS or Android: https://carpentries.zoom.us/j/372579582

SIGN UP FOR OUR CHAMPIONS ANNOUNCE LIST, if you'd like to attend other meetings in this community, please subscribe to Carpentries Champions Announce and we'll let you know before upcoming meetings: https://groups.google.com/a/carpentries.org/forum/#!forum/champions-announce

Are you subscribed to our newsletter? http://tinyurl.com/carpentry-clippings
Join us on Slack, go to https://swc-slack-invite.herokuapp.com/ to get a Slack account then join #champions channel.

## Attending:
    Name / Affiliation / twitter
    Jonah Duckles / The Carpentries / @jduckles
    Belinda Weaver / The Carpentries / @cloudaus
    Stefanie Butland / rOpenSci / @stefaniebutland
    Amanda Miotto/ Griffith Uni/ @amandamiottoGU
    Stephen Childs / York University / @sechilds
    Laura Fortunato / University of Oxford / @anthrolog (personal) / @RR_Oxford (Reproducibile Research Oxford) 
    Amy Hodge / Stanford University / what's twitter ;) 
    Mark Laufersweiler / University of Oklahoma / @laufers
    Mik Black / University of Otago / @mikblacknz (but you know I don't tweet...)
    Belinda Weaver / The Carpentries / @cloudaus
    Tracy Teal / The Carpentries / @tracykteal
    James Deaton / Great Plains Network / @jed

Agenda:
    
**Meet and greet in small groups - What leads you to engage in a community. What drives you away from a community.** 

## Group 1 -  Stefanie Butland, Amy Hodge, Belinda Weaver, Laura Fortunato
Leads to engage: mission of the Carpentries, having code of conduct, need one person who is a driver, give people a sense of belonging and see that their contribution is recognized and valued, have lots of different ways people can contribute, debriefing leads to continuous improvement, help people see what's in it for them, provide sample text for people to put on their CV

### Drives away: same people who always have the floor, or "are loud"
Somewhat difficult in big bureaucratic insituitions - not connected like IT and libraries, people are busy 
Important to give people a sense of belongng - that what they contribute is recognised and valued, don't wear people out, provide opportunities for get togethers, mentoring
Extending a personal welcome to newcomers. What keeps people engaged is friendly, helpful environment where they feel welcome, lept up to date


## Group 2 - 
Stephen Childs - York University, been an instructor for awhile, just starting to build up a community
Amanda Miotto - 
Tracy Teal -
What engages: Active community with a lot of people. Regular things going on is super important. If you're not consistent in having events and getting people together, it leaves people to drift off and not come back. 
What makes you excited to participate in a community: The chance to meet with and work with interesting people that are doing things that are close enough to what you're doing, have things in common, but have different perspectives. Learn new tricks and meet new people. 
In Brisbane, we definitely try to work with the groups already there within our university but here we decided to build a community too. Since we've started we've definitely seen the upskilling of entire groups within our university. you can see them be able to do things they haven't had the ability to learn previously or so much faster. these skills aren't being taught to some of the researchers and so when they start to do their phds or more they realise they need the skills but didn't have anywhere to learn
or didn't know where to start. so we help them by pointing them in the right direction. softcarp gives us a great starting point for 'i've never done this before'.we have a very solid talk to some users who are nervous on the 'its totally ok to not know anything'
and its totally ok to feel like you don' get it at first
some disciplines are better than others
Interest in working with the Carpentries: these things weren't taught and had to learn on their own, but wants 
shared values, same approach -- sense that they want me there, and that I don't have to fight to participate. 

### What drives you away: 
- It can be overwhelming at first. If no one tells you that's normal and OK that's not good. Amanda: we have a very solid talk to some users who are nervous on the 'its totally ok to not know anything'
and its totally ok to feel like you don' get it at first
some disciplines are better than others
- Not having people to connect with. Not having opportunity to talk to people in small groups. Have a situation where you can interact with people in a way you can work with. 

## Group 3 - Mik, Mark, James and Jonah
Mark: Information, what makes up organization. What are the primary means fo communication? Weekly emails, something reliable to keep informed. Get driven away by engaging being hard, it being hard to find information. 
As orgs become biger, you keep seeing similar faces. Do we get a chance to see other members? How do you not become cliqueish. It is hard to do perfectly, but how do you strive for diversity?

James: If he can't self-inform, it is hard to have the first productive conversations. Easier to engage if he understands what he can bring to the community. Deeper understanding of what community is about. Bring people into the circle. Prevent cliques. Making certain that you can identify what you're going to do to continue to contribute. 
Mik: Shared goals. Have to have goals that are shared. Has to be something that is in it for him or his students or he won't be able to engage. As new people come in, how do you integrate new people into the community. Important for new members to be able to easily make a meaningful contribution.
Jonah: Needs structure, but not too much structure that it makes it harder to bring my self and my passions.


Our new logo! - https://software-carpentry.org/blog/2018/02/our-new-logo.html
Are you on the announcement mailing list? -      https://groups.google.com/a/carpentries.org/forum/#!forum/champions-announce
Are you on our fortnightly (every two weeks) Carpentry Clippings Newsletter? - http://tinyurl.com/carpentry-clippings


The Carpentries Community Cookbook  - https://github.com/carpentries/community-cookbook

https://cookbook.carpentries.org

## Cookbook Outline - 
* Introduction - framing the cookbook
* Initiation - learn some ways to get started 
* Activities - learn about activities you can run at your organization
* Tools - learn about tools that can help build your community
* Support Stuctures - building in support of these activites at your organization
* Appendix - Extra resources 

Cookbook is a place to collect ideas that people are using in their local communities, from infrastructure to communities.
Jonah is being an editor of this cookbook. He might be reaching out to people who have had ideas to ask them to contribute. 

For people new to being a local champion, how can they get started. What information is useful to them? How can you bring community development? What kinds of language can people use to communicate to community and administration?

Jonah asks: Looking at the outline, is there anything missing from this?

Rendered version: https://cookbook.carpentries.org
Still needs some work in content and in the look/feel

* Amy: Interested in if this is about community building among learners or instructors? Amy interested in building an instructor community at Stanford. More able to have the capacity for this.
* Jonah: Good feedback on distinction of how the cookbook might be structured. At Oklahoma had served both. 
* Amy: Ideal is that would get instrductors really actively participating and then have them working out the learner help and support. For her, not allowed that much time to help all the learners, so having instructors involved in that could help scale. Wants to get more support and engagement from instructors in working with learners. 
* Laura: Activities section is likely aiming to do? Could it be activity and also sustaining the community. Lots of enthusiasm to start but then 99% of the work goes into sustaining the community.
* Belinda: On Amy's point, just wrapped up a mentoring group where there is no community. What they're trying to do is start a Carpentries community to start from zero. Cookbook gave them some activities to get started and guage if there is some interest. Maybe difference in sections on getting started versus keeping going. 
* James: Great Plain Network research and computing org across 6 states. Has been seeing the Carpentries as a way to build new communities and take down barriers between researchers and IT. Seeding this idea. Seeing it more as helping use it as the seed to create other communities. Not necessarily tied to the Carpentries, but will be driven by this. Been fantastic to establish that form of communication. Excited to see this cookbook and see where this goes. Community engagement and how to feel welcoming Carpentries already doing a good job. 
* Jonah: Different wiki style views. If you're new one view, if you're sustaining, another view. How can things continue to run without your constant pushing. Have seen it overcome. Create opportunities for people to step up +1, then they step up and contribute.
* Belinda: Might be good to have a section on session planning. Since she's done more work on the Carpentries has been less engaged locally, and now that she's not as much, things aren't sustaining as well. How to identify people who want to take on a leadership role and how we mentor people to do that. Tips on how to identify people and mentor them through that. 
* Jonah: Hopeful that this community and subsets of this community can create that active mentorship. Great to engage with a document, but not all. The format of having the video calls in this community changes how they feel that we can 'see' each other and the medium that we engage with matters. Not one single bullet of what will work. But are core values like CoC. Things that can be helpful for how it grows. 
* Mik: In cookbook if you can see what tasks can be done, then you can split them out early. See that you can't do it all yourself and plan for that from the start. 
* Tracy: In Davis also interested in instructors connecting with each other. Sharing teaching practices and local opportunities. Letting instructors decide how best to serve learners. 
* Laura: When starting out, would like a rough estimate of the work to put in for organizing a workshop. How long each activity would take, a rough estimate would have been useful. 
* Amanda: On the sustainable communities, is there examples of small universities where they've built sustainable self-running communities?
* Mik: At Otago we have built a fairly sustainable community around an extended research group (multiple existing lab groups). This is added to each year as we run ResBaz and SWC/DC workshops.  I’ll be adding this info to the cookbook.
* Amy: 'Study Group' name might not work that well. First instructor meetup was good, getting ready for second one, but on an ongoing basis would be good to know what to do. Eagerness to do some work from the instructors. But as person organizing the meeting, she has to come up with the 'assignment' or thing to do. To have discussion in small groups or something. Not just a meeting without an agenda.But have a real piece of meaty things to do at the meetings. So would love to have guidance on what to do at these meetups. Maybe chunks of things from instructor training that isn't coveredd. Good topics on discussion lists sometimes. If you want a paper to read can always ask Greg. Have those things assembled in the cookbook somewhere. A list of papers, or topics. A little bit of guideance to help with things to do at instructor meetings. Happy hour type get together are great, but don't just want that. Want things to do. 
* Jonah: Other things to do in the community than just being an instructor. Also lesson developers and maintainers. At these meetups can also let people know about these opportunities. In member organizations that are government organizations, where people are excited about their staff learning about the way Carpentries work by having them engaged in Carpentries activities. Working ot make this simplier by having it clearer on our new web page. 
* Mark: Two comments. Having Carpentries do the webinar. The Bloom taxonomy was a good one. Topic of next meeting is to have people listen to the talk, read the etherpad, and then at the meeting discuss and how they could use some of that information. Greg yesterday in LC meetup, asked who in the group, it is part of their job. When it is a part of someone's job, then it makes it easier, but still a handoff issue. How do you do the handoff, so it's not about the person, but about the community around it. Always encouraging faculty to take the training, so they can help or know why it's important. Feels blessed that in his situation it's a part of his job. 
* Jonah: Did work at Oklahoma, wasn't a part of his job description, but then when he left it ended up in a jobs description because the vacuum was noticed. Not necessarily a preferred strategy. :) As ideas come up in the future, can you add them as issues in the Carpentries cookbook repo? He and Belinda thinking about ways to organize these materials. Want it to be welcoming and accessible and have good sets of cases. 
* Book recommendation from Greg: https://www.amazon.com/Building-Powerful-Community-Organizations-Personal/dp/0977151808/
* Stefanie B: Good blog posts by Lou Woodley re: community building approaches for community of practice and compare with "infrastructure" or "halo" organization aspect of Carpentries creating workshop materials: https://socialinsilico.wordpress.com/2017/10/11/considering-community-what-types-of-community-are-there-science-edition-part-three/ and https://socialinsilico.wordpress.com/2017/06/28/considering-community-what-types-of-community-are-there-part-one-science-edition/

Could use contribution to a few GitHub issues: https://github.com/carpentries/community-cookbook/issues

